cs56-Password-Generator
=======================

Contributors:

* Vladimir Adam: https://foo.cs.ucsb.edu/cs56/issues/0000042/
* Ian Vernon and Evan Moelter (pair) https://github.com/ianvernon/cs56-utilities-password-generator
* Weihan (David) Wang: https://github.com/108498asdf/cs56-utilities-password-generator
* Troy Larson and Giovanni Rojas: https://github.com/giovanni-rojas/cs56-utilities-password-generator

JavaDoc: http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~108498asdf//cs56/W11/issues/0000042/javadoc


project history
===============
```
 W14 | bkiefer13 4pm | 108498asdf | (jcneally) A file that creates random passwords with a given password length
```
```
YES | mastergberry | 108498asdf | (jcneally) A file that creates random passwords with a given password length
```
High-Level Description(User's View)
===================================

This is a program that creates a random password with a given length of max and min. You can also input a list of special characters that can be added to the library of special characters that will be used to create the password.In the current state, I have implemented everything that it is suppose to do.


Some Internal Documentation(Developer's View)
=============================================

1. The main GUI code is located in PasswordGUI.java. 

2. This is the main function that generates the output. It also calls other functions to do stuff.
    ```java
	public String generate(String b,int min,int max)
	 {
	 // code here 
	 }
    ```
3. class Password has all the variables that are used in this project.  class PasswordGUI contains all the GUI swing elements.

How to run this project?
========================

There are two ways to run the project.

If you want to run the program with a GUI, type

```
ant run
```
If you want to run the program in Command Line Mode, type

```
ant run-cl
```

W16 Final Remarks
=================
We were asked to leave a note to whoever receives this project in the future. Here's some information about each source code file in the src folder.

Password.java contains the logic of the generate algorithm. Namely, the generate() method itself along with some helper functions.

PasswordGUI.java is a view for the GUI version of the program. It currently inherits Password.

CommandLine.java is a view for the Command Line version of the program.

All features in PasswordGUI are present in CommandLine. However, there is one distinct difference. CommandLine has the ability to generate multiple passwords and write to the file. It's a good idea if the GUI version has this idea too!

PasswordMain.java holds the main() function, which creates an instance of either CommandLine or PasswordGUI depending on what arguments the user passes in from the shell. Maybe this class can be converted to a controller to fit the MVC design pattern?

PasswordTest.java has some JUnit tests inside of it. There are plenty of tests that can be added to it right now, and it may be a good idea to add tests for each function you add yourself.

CharType.java holds the class for CharType. More on that below.

Perhaps the biggest change we made was the addition of this "CharType" class, which divides the characters that make up a password into four distinct types: uppercase letters, lowercase letters, digits, and special characters. We believe the generate algorithm is pretty straightforward now that it uses these objects (and if you have trouble understanding it, the code is heavily commented in that area).

One final thought if you REALLY want to go above and beyond: Generated passwords are secure, but hard to remember. If all of your passwords are generated by this program, how do you expect to remember them all? A good addition to the program would be the ability to store passwords (securely) so a user can remember them if ever forgotten.

Good luck,
Troy and Gio



